Update deprecated-features.rst (#8310)
mattermost/docs: source/product-overview/deprecated-features.rst

Removed features in upcoming versions
-------------------------------------

Mattermost Server v11.0.0 (October 2025)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The ``TeamSettings.ExperimentalViewArchivedChannels`` setting will be deprecated in favor of a new setting, ``TeamSettings.BrowseArchivedPublicChannels``. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/viewing-accessing-archived-channels-v11/22626>`__.

> - Playbooks will be unsupported for Free Edition and Professional customers. Professional customers using Playbooks can contact their Customer Success Manager to discuss potential upgrade options with discounting applied as appropriate. Additional details can be found in the `Clarification on Playbooks in Mattermost v10 <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/clarification-on-playbooks-in-mattermost-v10/20563>`__ article on the Mattermost Discussion Forums.

Author: Is this information and Forum post still accurate?

- Experimental Bleve Search functionality will be retired. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/transitioning-from-bleve-search-in-mattermost-v11/22982>`__.
- Support for MySQL will be ended. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/transition-to-postgresql/19551>`__.

> - The default value of the ``ExperimentalStrictCSRFEnforcement`` setting will be changed to ``true`` for new installations. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/default-value-of-the-experimental-strict-csrf-enforcement-setting-to-be-changed-to-true-v11/23139>`__.

Reviewer: The config name also changed to `StrictCSRFEnforcement`.

Author: I added a note about it.

- The ``registerPostDropdownMenuComponent`` hook in the web app’s plugin API will be removed in favour of ``registerPostDropdownMenuAction``. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/deprecating-a-post-dropdown-menu-component-plugin-api-v11/25001>`__.
- The web app will no longer expose the `Styled Components <https://styled-components.com/>`__ dependency for use by web app plugins. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/removing-styled-components-export-for-web-app-plugins-v11/25002>`__.
- The version of React used by the Mattermost web app will be updated from React 17 to React 18. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/upgrading-the-mattermost-web-app-to-react-18-v11/25000>`__.

> - Omnibus support will be deprecated.

Author: I've added a note now.

> - The default ``maxOpenConns/maxIdleConns`` settings in ``model.Config`` will be adjusted. Admins can choose to update their own settings to match the recommended defaults.

Reviewer: Is that really a deprecation?

> - Separate notification log file will be deprecated. If admins want to continue using a separate log file for notification logs, they can use the ``AdvancedLoggingJSON`` configuration.

Author: May need a Forum post.

Removed features in upcoming versions
-------------------------------------

Mattermost Server v11.0.0 (October 2025)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - The ``TeamSettings.ExperimentalViewArchivedChannels`` setting will be deprecated in favor of a new setting, ``TeamSettings.BrowseArchivedPublicChannels``. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/viewing-accessing-archived-channels-v11/22626>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The ``TeamSettings.ExperimentalViewArchivedChannels`` setting is deprecated. Archived channels are always accessible, subject to normal channel membership. The server will fail to start if this setting is set to `false`; to deny access to archived channels, mark them as private and remove affected channel members.
- ```

> - Playbooks will be unsupported for Free Edition. Professional, Enterprise, and Enterprise Advanced plans will automatically be upgraded to Playbooks v2 with no expeceted downtime.

Reviewer 2: Propose we delineate more harshly here:
```suggestion
- Playbooks will stop working for Free Edition. Professional, Enterprise, and Enterprise Advanced plans will automatically be upgraded to Playbooks v2 with no expected downtime.
```

- Experimental Bleve Search functionality will be retired. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/transitioning-from-bleve-search-in-mattermost-v11/22982>`__.
- Support for MySQL will be ended. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/transition-to-postgresql/19551>`__.

> - The ``ExperimentalStrictCSRFEnforcement`` setting will be renamed to ``StrictCSRFEnforcement`` and the default value will be changed to ``true`` for new installations. See more details in `this forum post <https://forum.mattermost.com/t/default-value-of-the-experimental-strict-csrf-enforcement-setting-to-be-changed-to-true-v11/23139>`__.

Reviewer 2: side nit: we're using the future tense here, but should this be written in the present tense instead?

Author: We're pre-announcing deprecations coming in an upcoming release, so I thought using future tense would make sense.
